---
title: "SIPB's CPW"
layout: post
permalink: /2010/04/11/sipbs-cpw/
comments: true
dsq_thread_id:
  - 
categories:
  - SIPB
tags:
  - MIT
  - SIPB
---

Every year, MIT holds a "campus preview weekend" (CPW) for the
prefrosh to come see MIT and hopefully be enticed to come here next
fall. Of course, this means that all the student groups and living
groups busily scramble to throw awesome events, and hopefully recruit
some of the prefrosh. So, as Chair of SIPB, I was nominally in charge
of making sure all these events for SIPB happened, and I'm happy to
say that I think they went really well!

<!-- more -->

First, we had the traditional fsck and inode block party (haha, get
it? It's a *block* party, as in blocks in a filesystem!). SIPB has had
this event for who knows how long, and it's always on the Friday of
CPW. Prefrosh come, eat pizza we buy for them, and meet SIPB folks and
learn what we do and why they might want to join SIPB. We also gave
tours of our machine room. About 20 prefrosh showed up over the course
of the party, and there were several who seemed very interested. I
would say our one error here was that we bought about 9 pizzas too
many.

Then on Saturday was the activities midway, which is also traditional
for SIPB (and every other student group ever) to be at. Basically,
your group gets a booth, you put shiny things on it to attract the
prefrosh, and when they wander over, tell them about your group -- who
you are, what you do, and why they might be interested in
joining. This year, instead of having people write their names down on
a sheet of paper, we had them fill out a form on our website. I'm not
convinced we got as many signups as we normally do -- I think perhaps
people didn't immediately notice that that's where they were supposed
to put their name and email. In the fall, we should do a better job of
making it obvious that they should fill out the form -- I'm not in
favor of going back to handwritten signups, since people's handwriting
is often very difficult to decipher.

Usually, the midway is the last thing that SIPB does for CPW. This
year, however, we held two more events after the midway: the Malware
Aquarium, and Everything You Wanted To Know About Computers But Were
Afraid To Ask. I am really happy that we decided to have more events,
because I think it gave prefrosh an excuse and/or chance to come back
to SIPB, hang out with us some more, and really feel like they want to
come back and join us in the fall. I remember that there were several
awesome prefrosh at the block party last year, but we forgot to write
down their names, and I'm pretty sure that none of them ended up back
at SIPB in the fall. Not only did we correctly take names this time,
but we gave the prefrosh a chance to come back and solidify their
impressions and relationship with SIPB before they went back home.

We advertised Aquarium and EYWTKAC at the midway pretty heavily, and
even had the comic which inspired Aquarium ([xkcd #350][1]) up on one
of the screens for people to read. Many of my conversations went
something like this:

 [1]: http://xkcd.com/350

prefrosh: *reads comic, laughs* me: So, we actually built that!
prefrosh: Wait, seriously? That's awesome!  me: I know! You should
come check it out! We're displaying it from 5-7pm in our office.
prefrosh: Cool! I'll totally be there!

In the past, I haven't seen this sort of enthusiasm/attraction to
SIPB, so I think that having some sort of event that most people can
relate to is a good idea. The aquarium actually ended up being not
quite finished -- and was actually difficult to build, because
apparently malware is hard to breed in a sterile environment (major
props to [Quentin Smith][2], [Evan Broder][3], and [Jiawen Chen][4],
who worked really hard to get something together for the event). SIPB
should definitely try to have a similar sort of event during the Fall
rush and at future CPWs. If we can make people say "wow, that's really
cool!", then I think we've succeeded, at the very least, in giving our
organization a better name and promoting awareness that we exist.

 [2]: http://coolerq.livejournal.com/
 [3]: http://ebroder.net/
 [4]: http://people.csail.mit.edu/jiawen/

Finally, our last event was Everything You Wanted To Know About
Computers But Were Afraid To Ask (EYWTKAC) on Saturday evening. This
"question and answer session" was [Karen Sittig][5]'s idea, and she
did pretty much all the work in organizing it (including having a test
run about a week ago with just SIPB people) -- she really did an
awesome job! I think that the prefrosh who came to this event were
mostly ones who had also come to the party on Friday (plus a few from
the midway), who obviously found SIPB interesting and wanted to see
what some of our members could teach them. We had several panelists
who answered the prefrosh's questions, which tended to be very
thoughtful. The panelists seemed to do a good job at explaining the
topics in a way that could be understood without a lot of background,
but the topics were not trivial -- I learned some new things like, for
example, what sort of dirty tricks modern processors to do run
instructions faster. I think this worked really well in showing that
we have a lot of information at our disposal, and are eager and
willing to share it with those who get involved with SIPB -- someday,
too, you might be one of those panelists! I would definitely be in
favor of running this event again.

 [5]: http://kasittig.scripts.mit.edu/blog/

Another thing we did differently this year was to have SIPB "business
cards". Someone on zephyr suggested doing this, and I thought it
sounded like a great idea. I spent an hour or two before the party on
Friday fighting with LaTeX to make some pretty cards, and eventually
got them to work. I even left a space right beneath "SIPB" for SIPB
people to write their name and email if they so chose (Karen's idea),
to add a personal touch when giving them out to prefrosh they'd been
talking to. I think this worked well, because now the prefrosh can
remember who that SIPB person was they spent an hour discussing things
with, and how to get back in touch with SIPB/that person in the fall
when they return to MIT.

Anyway, in summary, things I've learned from this CPW:

* hold more than one event -- one before the midway, and at least one
  after the midway
* have events that make the prefrosh go "wow, that's cool!"
* be willing to spend time with the prefrosh outside of the official
  events, talking with them and showing them how awesome MIT (and
  SIPB) is
* have cards (or something similar) to hand out, that have a short
  description of who we are and other contact information
